
16/10/2021 21:15:34

exercise!
make one positive quote a day!
play social! it's time to be social! take a shot from it!
learn English! learn math!
play chess! play puzzles! online? let's go!
draw something! really, anything!
WRITE A BOOK!
READ NOVELS! ENGLISH!
wanna learn Italian? Turkish? Spanish? Greek? Finnish? Swedish?
learn Chinese or Korean, one after another!
programming: you can do it later. however, we're currently lacking productive environment


----

I'm trying to deal with fear of judgements (Ne-Fe related) which made me socially anxious (inside).
Also I usually trying to tailor my personality/attitude to someone I'm talking to, though I can say it _only_ happen on internet while IRL I naturally appears 'solid' ***

This also made me shy away from online ENTP communities. While I'm sure that I'm an ENTP by cognitive function, I can't relate to those 'brightness' appearance ***

Maybe it's because I'm Choleric-Sanguine, being serious and appear rawly 'dark' come very natural to me myself than those upbeat stereotypes. Although it'd be a lot of fun and feel alive to have some of them around.

***

Also I usually have 'low sense of self' (unsure if it's the right term for this), I usually trying to tailor my personality

+ I'm very self conscious, my Ne-Fe telling me any possible 'inner conments' of the audience, any possible way I can be rejected. Again, I didn't invoke my Ti properly and it naturally pulled by Fe, which also exhausting.

I have many xSFJ around me, but most of them are mildly toxic and too sensitive (in the wrong way) in their way of using Ne. It triggers my Ne-Fe loop and yes, it's exhausting.
Beside that, I found ISxP to be more less reading between the lines and less emotional (or at least appears to be emotionally stable). Talking to them make my Fe calmer and leaning more to my Ti.
Though I'm being logical and literal (which is a lot easier than dealing with negative emotional stuff), with intention to talk to his Ti-Se, somewhy he tries to counter it with his Ni by reading between the lines and it's usually lead to miscommunications due to his wrong interpretation/assumptions of what I'm saying... Oh wait, maybe it's because I talk to him about abstract ideas. Though I hate to limit people by their cognitive function (in fact, I suck on Se > Si > Fe and the struggle is real).

It feels like while you understand Japanese and talk to them in their native language, some of them will make effort to talk back to you in English instead of simply in Japanese. But y'know? How it'll unfold itself if you talk to them in English responding to their kind effort. I call it a 'tailoring war', I just want you to be the host!

***


I didn't even think that I'm an 8.
Too soft and sensitive to be an 8. (Oh wait, I heard that type 8s are tough on the outside and soft inside...)

I'm so transparent and true to myself, even to my emotions and insecure feelings and very self-introspective. It makes me feel as if I'm naked 'identitically' and people can literally see what I'm made of. I also tend to feel pleasure out of wallowing in sadness (sx-dominant thing?). I thought I was a 4.
Since last years I consciously regulated it because I gained awareness on how it could be used as a way to exploit me and how it could trigger intimacy allergy on people, or even make random people hold unrealistic expectations out of my friendliness because I just don't want to disappoint them later since I'm capable of going full spectrum from being highly friendly, neutral (yeah, it's no longer 'all or nothing') and highly defiant in literally few seconds. I'd feel pleased to disappoint them earlier lol, and let them choose to 'join' me or not, because I value deep relationships.
Oh, maybe I could even use it to manipulate others out of their reactions? lol, but I believe it's not that simple. After all, I think, being logical, critical and avoid being overtaken by emotions is enough for such exploits... (what am talking about?!)

I used to call myself shy. But after some deeper reflection found that I'm not shy, I just have a fear of judgements (maybe due to my Fe-tertiary and so-second) and *being* stupid/incompetent/misleading.

I was a mild people pleaser in the past, mainly because I was concerned about possibilities of how others' actions could impact my life (mainly negatively) and I'm so sensitive myself that I avoid hurting others' feelings (learnt that not everyone has such feelings in return, yet imagining such highly feelings-cammouflaged communication style makes me feel restrained, uncomfortable and inauthentic so I prefer clear/balanced communication style).

My basic desire is being free and independent, yet in order to get there I aware that I do need helps (even of its smallest extent) of any other creature. After all I'm sure I'll still need them even after 'I am there'.

Yet my basic fear is to get hurt/feel pain (mainly, physically. But really, who doesn't fear it?). It makes me want to be strong (both physically and mentally) in this to-eat-or-to-be-eaten world. Usually, my response is to go against/fight the threat, also it's very important to have strategy.
From what I read, 8s usually deny their weaknesses and feelings. While I'm so in touch with my feelings, I still able to 'turn off'/ignore them to the extent of being comfortably numb.
I think, my *only* hinder is my physical pain receptor itself. Other than that, AFAIK, I don't think they make a big deal (as a fear). But then, assuming that I'm literally completely immune to any kind of pain, I may be less empathetic or even unable to understand what others had going through, it could make me no longer a human - void (speaking for myself, though).
However, I love life, its ups and downs, its miracle, its challenges (clichéd), surely it's not made solely by light, but it's reality. And paradoxically, I'm now still trying to deal with my 'social anxiety'.

I'm not really concerned about leading/controlling others (possibly due to sense of incompetence in myself and I want to be independent/free myself), but at least I want to have control over my life, needs, behavior, words, problems etc..

Also, I find anger to be a highly powerful and motivating emotion more than any other emotions by far especially when redirected into positive actions. Sometimes sadness and self-pity can be 'converted' into anger too, to be used as motivation/progress booster for my projects. Again, it's from my personal experience.



Some parts of it made of my self-reflection while writing it, it feels like sharing my self talk.
Hope it can somehow be helpful for someone out there.

Thanks for reading/the visit and sorry for the chaos in my writing, English isn't my mother tongue.


